CCSMB-4: Lua files (#9)
CCSMB/Standards: Standards/CCSMB-4.md

# CCSMB-4: Lua

*Author: Oliver Cooper (oeed)*
*Last updated: 2022-01-27*

> *Version: v1.0.0*

Reviewer: these should be spaced out a little more

Author: ```suggestion
*Author: Oliver Cooper (oeed)*

*Last updated: 2022-01-27*

*Version: v1.0.0*
```

## Quick information

| Information |                           |
| ----------- | ------------------------- |
| Version     | 1.0.0                     |
| Type        | Plain text file format    |
| MIME        | `text/lua`                |
| Extensions  | `.lua`                    |

## Technical details

> *This format is based upon [plain text](/File-Formats/text/plain.md) and as such technical details that apply to plain

Author: Overlooked this when migrating, thank you!
```suggestion
*This format is based upon [plain text](/Standards/CCSMB-2.md) and as such technical details that apply to plain
```

text also apply to this format.*

> Lua code files should contain valid, executable Lua code. These can either be self-contained programs, APIs or Lua

Reviewer 2: Potentially add something about binary code files? Or is that contained in "valid, executable Lua code"?

Reviewer 2: Actually, looking at the full thing, it states it extends plaintext. Lua files can be binary as well, so it would probably be best to put a note in here about that.

Author: > Potentially add something about binary code files? Or is that contained in "valid, executable Lua code"?

Do you mean Lua bytecode?

In my opinion, I think that should be a different file format RFC, with its own file extension. Thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, lua bytecode.

`.luab` perhaps?

Reviewer 3: Maybe these could be separate standards?

> otherwise loaded by a program.

Reviewer 2: Lines 21-22? `md` files allow you to do this to keep line width requirements. In the actual md file these two lines will be concatenated with a space.

A double newline indicates a newline to md.

# CCSMB-4: Lua

*Author: Oliver Cooper (oeed)*

*Last updated: 2022-01-27*

*Version: v1.0.0*

## Quick information

| Information |                           |
| ----------- | ------------------------- |
| Version     | 1.0.0                     |
| Type        | Plain text file format    |
| MIME        | `text/lua`                |
| Extensions  | `.lua`                    |

## Technical details

*This format is based upon [plain text](/Standards/CCSMB-2.md) and as such technical details that apply to plain
text also apply to this format.*

Lua code files should contain valid, executable Lua source code. These can either be self-contained programs, APIs or Lua

> otherwise loaded by a program.

Reviewer 4: Maybe append this with ```Lua code files should be loaded with `require`, over `os.loadAPI`. Lua code files should also use `local` to declare a variable, unless a `global` is needed, which it usually is not.```
